# Turbulent mass tranfer into a stationary bubble using nekRS

This [nekRS][nekrs-github] case models the transfer of a miscible species
from liquid bulk into a gas bubble during turbulent flow. Rather than
semi-empirical Sherwood number correlations or RAS-coupled mass transfer
models, this simulation is designed to leverage the leadership-class compute
capability of [Aurora][anl-aurora] and [Frontier][ornl-frontier] to perform
Large Eddy Simulation (LES) turbulence modeling and directly determine the
advective behavior at the liquid-gas phase interface.

As this simulation is designed for exascale supercompute-level resources, it
cannot be run locally on a single workstation due to memory constraints.

[nekrs-github]: https://github.com/Nek5000/nekRS
[anl-aurora]: https://www.alcf.anl.gov/aurora
[ornl-frontier]: https://www.olcf.ornl.gov/frontier/

## Cases

### `rigid` case

The `rigid` case is a nekRS case modeling a fixed bubble boundary, with the
interior of the bubble unmeshed. The instructions below are for this case.

The case is non-dimensional, and parameters have been adjusted to match a
FLiBe-argon system at 625 C, matching [our OpenFOAM device-scale gas-liquid
contactor (GLC) tritium extractor case][bubblecolumn].

[bubblecolumn]: https://github.com/UCBHEAT/bubblecolumn

### `2D` case

The `2D` case is a nek5000 case modeling a dynamic bubble with boundary
tracked using the in-development level set support. It requires [this
fork][nekLS] of nek5000, and is based on [this example case from the
developer of level set in nek5000][nekLS-examples].

Level set is in the middle of being ported to nekRS, after which these
instructions will apply to the `2D` case as well. In the meantime, different
steps need to be followed to run the case as a nek5000 case instead
of a nekRS case.

Standard steps for running a nek5000 case can be followed (`genbox`, `genmap`,
`makenek`, `./nek5000`), except you must compile with HYPRE if it is enabled
in the case file.

```
# Support 'preconditioner = semg_amg_hypre'.
PPLIST="HYPRE" makenek bubble
```

[nekLS]: https://github.com/nandu90/Nek5000/tree/nekLS
[nekLS-examples]: https://github.com/nandu90/nekLS_Examples/tree/master/bubbleRise/Dodd/2D

## Running

These cases require nekRS v24. As of this writing nekRS v25 is in release
candidate stage, but we have not yet updated to support nekRS v25.

The `nrqsub_aurora` and `nrqsub_frontier` scripts should be used to submit
this case as a job to the queue.

Note that nekRS requires a specific programming environment to build and run.
This may change from time to time, but the following instructions are valid
as of this writing.

### Aurora

With `NEKRS_HOME` set up as described in the nekRS documentation, compile with:

```
module load cmake
module use /soft/modulefiles
CC=mpicc CXX=mpic++ FC=mpif77 ./build.sh \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$NEKRS_HOME
```

### Frontier

Similarly, with `NEKRS_HOME` set up, compile with:

```
module reset
module load Core/24.07
module load PrgEnv-gnu
module load gcc-native/13.2
module load craype-accel-amd-gfx90a
module load cray-mpich
module load rocm
module load cmake
module unload cray-libsci
module list
CC=cc CXX=CC FC=ftn ./build.sh \
   -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$NEKRS_HOME \
   -DENABLE_HYPRE_GPU=off
```

## Contributing

This project follows standard nek5000/nekRS conventions:

- `ss1.par` - main control file
  - This is where timestep control, solver configuration, and boundary patch
    mapping happens.
- `ss1.re2` - mesh file
- `ss1.oudf` - OCCA user defined functions
  - This file is used to code any custom boundary conditions.
- `ss1.udf` - CPU-side user defined functions
- `ss1.usr` - defines boundary patch IDs and initial conditions (useric)

Other files are generated during a simulation run:

- `ss1.f#####` - checkpoint files, containing field data for visualization or
  resume
- `ss1.nek5000` - metadata file generated by `nrsvis` for opening in ParaView
- `Sh_nek` - Sherwood number data output

## Mesh

This case uses [Gmsh][gmsh] for mesh generation, as nekRS requires a
second-order hexahedral mesh. Rather than a raw .geo Gmsh script, we use the
official Python API to properly script the complex geometry creation.

To set up the Python environment for Gmsh, run:

```
$ python -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The mesh file can be generated by calling the Python script:

```
$ python generate_mesh.py
```

The resulting .msh file can be converted via the [gmsh2nek tool][gmsh2nek]
tool by invoking

```
$ gmsh2nek
```

and following the prompts (this program asks for user input from stdin rather
than taking command line arguments).

[gmsh]: https://gmsh.info/doc/texinfo/gmsh.html
[gmsh2nek]: https://github.com/Nek5000/Nek5000/tree/master/tools/gmsh2nek

## Acknowledgements

This material is based upon work supported under a Department of Energy,
Office of Nuclear Energy University Nuclear Leadership Program Graduate
Fellowship. Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or recommendations expressed
in this publication are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Department of Energy Office of Nuclear Energy.
